# EduIndex Protocol

The EduIndex Protocol is a decentralized, non-custodial educational social graph. EduIndex implements unique, on-chain interaction, that is similar to the web2 education platform, but significantly expanded with unique functionality that empowers communities to form and participants to own their own educational social graph.

Developers can build on the network, leveraging its audience and infrastructure. Users can seamlessly switch between education platforms without losing their profiles, content, or certificates.
Here are some components of the protocol,

**Profile NFT**

The Profile NFT, a key element of the EduIndex Protocol, grants you control over your educational social graph and content. An address can own multiple Profile NFTs, each maintaining a record of all courses, lessons, progress, ratings, NFT certificates, and other content created. Each EduIndex Profile is uniquely identified by an ID, such as a Profile.

**Publications**

Publications in EduIndex Protocol encapsulate the content generated by the users. They are categorized into four main types:
- Course: This is the fundamental publication type.
- Lesson: This provides details information about the course. Each lesson is a reference to the course.
- Progress: This provides the progress for the collected course or lesson
- Rating: This provides a means to express opinions and feedback on a Course.

Publications are linked to the user's Profile NFTs, ensuring that the user retains ownership of the content.

The content of a publication, including text, image and video URLs, and more, is stored in a separate metadata object that is connected to the publication via its public URI. This content can be hosted on decentralized storage solutions, like IPFS.

The course-type publication has a Collect Module. The Collect Module determines how others can collect the course publication. 

Each lesson publication has an Open Action Module. The Open Action Module is used to act based on the completion of the lesson. 

**Collect Module**

Collect Module, enables course creator to monetize their course. When the creator creates the course it can attach the collect module. These actions are defined by smart contracts that can interact with the broader EVM ecosystem, and even go cross-chain when aided by an oracles.
Here are other examples of Collect Module that can be developed:
- Token Gated course collection
- Subscription base course collection
- NFT Gated course collection

Creators have the flexibility to set conditions for collecting, like limiting the availability time or the number of collects. 

Additionally, developers can customize collect actions to introduce even more features.

We have developed the SimpleFeeCollectModule to show the functionality of the protocol.

**Open Action**

Open Actions enhance the user experience by allowing EduxIndex applications to execute external on-chain actions directly on Lesson completion. These actions are defined by smart contracts that can interact with the broader EVM ecosystem, and even go cross-chain when aided by an oracle.
Here are other examples of Open Actions that can be developed:
- Reward distribution for completing the lesson
- Milestone base reward distribution
- NFT Badge Distribution

We have developed the RewardActionModule to show the functionality of the protocol.

**Certificate**

A certificate is an ERC-721 smart contract used to distribute NFT once the course is completed by profile. The course creator can link the certificate contract.
We have developed the BasicNFTCertificate contract to show the functionality of the protocol.

**Business Model**

The Protocol is currently operating under an experimental fee structure. The goal of this experimentation is to identify a sustainable model for covering protocol costs on the platform.

| Fee Type | Amount | Note |
| :------ | :------ | :------ |
| Course Collect | 5 EDU | This fee is deducted when the user purchases the course (For testnet it is 0.5 EDU) |

**Deployed Contract**

**Core**

EduxHub - [0x51835f2c023E41F093d6D36fe74a159bfaf5f667](https://opencampus-codex.blockscout.com/address/0x51835f2c023E41F093d6D36fe74a159bfaf5f667)

ModuleRegistry - [0x9E7C0129e9C8C76270ba4C4fc39BcD3aC4Ccb301](https://opencampus-codex.blockscout.com/address/0x9E7C0129e9C8C76270ba4C4fc39BcD3aC4Ccb301)

**Modules**

**Collect Module**

SimpleFeeCollectModule - [0xb6FfaeFc397e9739385e464954434aD39f534332](https://opencampus-codex.blockscout.com/address/0xb6FfaeFc397e9739385e464954434aD39f534332)

**Action Module**

RewardActionModule - [0xbAFaC84cFdC477C55e2a134f1D7e7873c79394a7](https://opencampus-codex.blockscout.com/address/0xbAFaC84cFdC477C55e2a134f1D7e7873c79394a7)

**Certificate Module**

BaseNFTCertificateModule - [0xd30fb36Db7D3E85D2A57E69B1e90b311A94A6716](https://opencampus-codex.blockscout.com/address/0xd30fb36Db7D3E85D2A57E69B1e90b311A94A6716)

**Subgraph**

edux-protocol-open-campus-codex/1 - [Public PlayGround](https://api.goldsky.com/api/public/project_cm0aily55b78801wwgpno8are/subgraphs/edux-protocol-open-campus-codex/1/gn)

**Next Steps**

- Feedback and Modification in EduIndex Protocol
- Standard module creation
- SDK development
- Application development on top of EduIndex Protocol
